Katheryn Dhare -- Blood Run Creek -- Act I 

-- the burnt over region --
Climb over as if to infiltrate, climb over so as to ignore the warning that the land sends out. 
Ignore long talon like strands of moraines, serving as berms, as if some beast were rising up beyond the morass of time to stake a claim to all that traverse it's regions. This is the burnt over land and be warned of the danger that lies beyond. 

The nickname for the region was also the suicide hills as that just enough folks have come to a bad end there as make the case for their being a dark forces that overcome the passions that turn dark.
Something off, a dead silence. The density of packed trees, squeezing out the sky, making for a dark, smothering quiet, no birds, no squirrels, no raccoons; absent, muffled, as if all the life were shunning or hiding. Some have said everything sounds as if it's coming through a veil of earth. 

Strong magnetic distortions induced by the thick deposits iron, make compasses misdirect, by spinning or inverting the right reading; sending hikers deeper into the wood or round and round in circles, perhaps stumbling or sliding down an embankment into the murky rust colored muck of blood run creek, to be drowned or just lost on the way to the sea. 

Perhaps it might have something to do with those that come to area never to be heard from again, who seek the complete oblivion, of the crushing dead silence and they seek that silence for themselves. The deadness of the wood is only broken by the sound of Blood-Run-Creek when you have stumbled upon it or near to slipping down into it. 

Something about the way the water cuts a deep slope makes it more treacherous than it ought to be. 

-- --- --- 
Looking down on the twinkling lights of Essex bay, nestled in the foot hills to the Arkham mountains, 
Katheryn Dhare or 
Kat as she is known amongst her set, 
the set of all possible friends which has over lap with the set of all possible enemies producing the union of fr-enemies who also regard her a Kat. Kat does sometimes ponders who belongs on what set depending of the continually shifting alliances at Essex High. Some seek her favors because her mother still runs the Essex Herald at least until it runs out of money which ought to be in the next year or so. As a free weekly it lingers on if only because of the old folks in the area that don't get their local news from Facebook or Twitter or ... 

But this is enough for Kat to be able to leverage her involvement with the paper against those that might slight her for being "different."  

Adjacent her in the clearing on the north face of a steep rise, suitable for an arduous hike to one of the lesser peaks is Karl, tall, thin, athletic Karl, who it is rumored to be gay. 
Kat hasn't yet tested this conjecture but here in the clearing looking down to where the lights of Essex bay reassure an otherwise lost hiker that there is civilization, miles in the right direction and that they are not as lost as they think they are, that is until they begin their decent and disappear in the wood and lose sight of the sky and the road to the north that bisects the Arkham range. 
But looking down into the valley and out to Essex bay star like dots speckled the shore, they were the street lights of
Essex Bay 
"Isn't it lovely up hear, not a cloud, and the moon, it's almost like day time."

Hundred mile road cuts west from Essex bay up into the mountains and onward toward the plains but not until it has twisted it's way through some of the densest wood in the North. Legends of the Wendigo still frighten some around a campfire. It is said to be brought forth by the act of cannibalism. And several disturbed interlopers have been said to have engaged in such acts to bring it forth, but such conjecture can't be proved. 

They had come with fiends that they have left at the base of the climb to gather around a campfire as they are apt to do on a temperate fall evening. Tomorrow not being a school night, means that  curfews have been extended. No one has class tomorrow and Monday is a holiday anyway. But midterms are around the corner and Katheryn expects to spend some of the weekend studying. That's why it was positively brilliant of Karl to suggest this outing but much to Katheryn's chagrin he made a point of telling enough others that they are not as alone as Katheryn would have hoped for. 

She was as social as the next girl, perhaps more so, considering that she was her father's daughter, the daughter of the man that had revived the Essex Herald, when he had moved up here from the city. At first people were confused and perhaps hostile but eventually accepted he and his newly wed wife Margret  


Katheryn Dhare perhaps a little perturbed by the darkness or the cold of the fall evening as the leaves have already begun to turn, moves closer to Karl as if seeking some kind of reassurance but pulling back as if to remind herself that she is not so easily frightened. But maybe it isn't that kind of reassurance that drives her into the arms of Karl Benoff. His people are of hearty German decent and are used to thick coniferous forests and peaks of modest height. She could envision him in the Alps, at a sky lodge, perhaps huddling by the fire telling stories of great runs made skying the twisty-est slopes that would otherwise ruin lessor adventurers. 

But they are at the crest of the slope with all of Essex Bay within sight, even the boats moored in the harbor. Essex Bay so picturesque, so inviting why don't more venture down from Canada or Boston up from New York. Somehow the bulk of tourist traffic bypasses Essex Bay and heads further North or stops before coming North enough. Once a strong fishing community has dwindled as the bigger deeper fairing boats have also moved North or South for more plentiful waters. 

Katheryn takes his hand and points to the ripeness of the moon rising. He holds her hand for a moment, then lets go. The twinge of excitement Katheryn felt at the success of getting Karl all to herself fizzles, like so much air being let out of a balloon. 
"Your mom wants me to cover the Keegan execution for the Herald." 
"Really, are you going to?" 
"It's a pretty big deal, I have to go out to the Penitentiary and see if I can interview him, maybe get him to clear up the mystery." 
"Wow that would be a real scoop, as they say." 
"might even get me into journalism school."
"Is that what you want?"
"There are worse things I could do with my life." 
"Seems if you can get Joe Keegan to spill his guts that would make you journalist enough to not have to bother with a school. Maybe even get a spot on a big time paper. But if you wanted to continue with school I couldn't see not trouncing the competition. Most everyone that you'd be competing with would have done little more than blurbs in the school newspaper or blogs on sites nobody ever visits."
"Maybe that's true, but want to learn to do it the right way eve if I were to get an offer from the big time." 
"Karl I would be proud of you no matter what you chose to do, school or no school." Katheryn took hold of his hand for emphasis. He let her hold it for moment but again let go. 
"I'll race you to the bottom?" 
"I'm still enjoying our time up here where it's quiet and ..."

Karl smiled, but then the smile left him and he started down the slope not racing but moving at a good pace. Katheryn, her moment lost relented she looked toward the heavens as if for an answer, and with none forthcoming she followed down after Karl. 

Once having begun her decent from the heights of flirtatious seclusion, the spell broken, she concentrated on the decent down the trail. Karl was several steps ahead and she sought to rectify this. She was more than happy to let him lead for a while, to lull him into the sense that he had won his dare to race her to the bottom. When they had covered a half the distance she made her move to surge in front. I was while crossing one of those berms that Karl slowed to a more cautious pace carefully climbed over the rocky out crop. Katheryn practically leaped over him and landed in the soft earth at the other side. For a moment she lost her balance and it seemed that she would tumble of the trail and down the embankment but her agility gained from several years of track, brought her to back to equilibrium and she pushed herself to take the lead. 

She was aware of Karl behind her, now scrambling to catch her, his pride perhaps dented some as he wouldn't take well to having a girl beat him at even this trifling contest, or so Katheryn expected and she pushed herself still harder. The trail wound through trees, over logs, winding down into the crushing darkness that made the likes of Katheryn if she were alone want to run that much faster expecting the dark force of the mountain to want to disgorge her or envelop her entirely. THey didn't refer to these hills as the suicide hills for nothing, people were lost up here, and for many a year there seemed to be the fad of climbing in the brush and getting lost. Katheryn knew that all she needed to do is stay with the trail.   
--- The Runner Stumbles 
She began to accelerate away down the trail, creating a greater and greater distance between her and Karl. She would be able to tease him endlessly that she had won, that a girl had beaten him. She expected he would be a little embarrassed, that he would have a few red faced moments and then they could all laugh about it back at the cap fire with the rest of the kids from Essex High. Katheryn paced her self so as not to get winded for the last leg of the journey and allow Karl to overtake her. Controlling her breathing, counting breathes, and other things that runners do to keep themselves focused on lengthy sprints. Sometime near midnight the trail leveled off and she caught a glimpse of the bonfire where the kids had gathered, for a night of laughter and over indulgence in things they weren't supposed to be doing. Katheryn made her way across the field to the flicking campfire light partially obscured by those huddled around it. The evening temperature continued to keep falling forcing those that weren't sufficiently inebriated to huddle in closer. Periodically she would look over her shoulder to see if Karl had emerged from the woods but she was alone on the plane.
She entered the circle of campfire spectators, they parted their ranks to make space for her and warmed her hands, frequently steeling glances back to ascertain Karl's progress but there was no sign of him. Her compulsion to gloat gave way to concern. 
"Where's Karl?" Mena Delmar asked. 
"He was right behind me." 
"And you left him. What if he's hurt."
Katheryn allowed the words to hang there. A gulf of Silence opened up capable of swallowing her thoughts. Into the silence came the voice of Jessie Durban, a girl a year under Katheryn but often part of the same group. There was a certain fluidity between the grades of Essex High. The Seniors and the Juniors had over lapping lunch periods which allowed them to get friendly with each other where it made sense. 
"She might not have known." said Jessie stepping forward as if to add emphasis, and then said "Try his phone."  
Katheryn was about to say something along the lines of "I can fight my own battles," but she didn't, she let her thoughts return to the disposition of Karl who was missing at this point. And as Jessie had suggested she took out her phone and attempted to call but as expected out near the hills away from town there was no signal. The blacking out of communication contributed to Katheryn's feeling that the suicide hills had claimed another, but as quickly as the thought surfaced she pushed it back down; thinking like that wouldn't help the situation one bit. So with no other course of action apparent she turned and left the campfire circle and started back along the open plane toward the hills. She was aware of being followed, and she turned expecting it to be Mena ready heap on further admonishment but it wasn't it was Jessie. The slight wisp of a girl was following her. "I thought if something has happened that you might need help" 
Katheryn being the self possessed girl she always imagined herself as was again about to speak along the lines of "I can handle this myself" but as before she thought better of it. Somewhat touched by the girl's forthright manner she relaxed her 'go it alone streak' and said "Great, but I hope I wont need the help but thanks for volunteering."
"No problem." Jessie fell into step with Katheryn and together they began their way back up the trail. Katheryn took pains to make sure as to stick to the trail she had come down but there was no grantee that Karl would have stayed on the same path; it was the quickest way down; why would he deviate from it. But the evidence was obvious he wasn't on the trail. Katheryn called out for Karl and as her call died Jessie would call out in the silence, so there was a constant stream of calls 
Once they had covered about a third of the distance up the trail 